[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here with
legendary actor and activist rain wilson
rayne welcome to the show man pick it up
pick it up pick it up
there it is
yeah buddy it is so good to have you
back man hey it's great to talk to you
again i really enjoyed our conversations
uh back in the day when i was kind of
more actively with soul pancake and on
your first show and uh hearing your your
life journey is always inspiring and
congratulations on the success of your
show it's great thank you man i i am so
in awe of the way that you move through
the world and really excited to have you
back one thing i want to talk about that
i think you're doing really well is this
is such a crazy time for people stress
anxiety and all of that you don't eschew
the sort of messiness of the real world
you're in it trying to find a way to do
something that matters to you to the
world
and that is so cool to see you leverage
purpose and service as a way through
um any difficult time and i i know
recently you've started talking about
your struggles with anxiety and
depression and i would love to jump into
that and and just understand more about
how you've found a way out of it
uh yeah thank you uh for for saying that
and for bringing that up so there's a
number of different fields that i'm
interested in besides the whole
writing
acting producing
directing kind of hollywood stuff which
you know comes and goes has its ups and
downs but um
you know one is my wife and i do all
this work in haiti
uh with girls education i'm really
passionate about that i've been doing a
bunch of stuff about climate change i
think we'll talk a little bit about that
but this is another one
uh that i'm really uh an issue that i'm
really passionate about which is mental
health
and
so i have this company sold pancake that
i co-founded
and we did last year a documentary about
mental health
called uh laughing matters and it's um
it's comedians talking about their
struggles with mental health because
there's there's a link between comedy
and anxiety and comedy and depression as
you know you know with
robin williams and
you know there's addiction issues and
you know all kinds of all kinds of stuff
in that in that area so it was really an
honor to be able to
explore that but
this issue
is so huge in fact i would say that um
[Music]
you know
there's just there's a handful of issues
that are kind of the most important in
the world as i see them and you know
we've got racism is a huge one
climate change is another one but
mental health especially with young
people is huge it's off the charts when
you start looking at the numbers it's a
very simple google search i won't repeat
them for you right now but you can just
type in
suicide anxiety depression young people
teenagers etc
and you see that you know suicides have
gone up by a third over the last 15
years the number of uh
teens gen zeurs 20-somethings suffering
from
uh depression and anxiety and loneliness
loneliness is through the roof this is
one of the biggest issues that they're
dealing with on college campuses uh
the the numbers that even before uh
covey kicked off
oh yeah oh yeah
this has been it's been for years and
older people
like ourselves gen xers or boomers like
really have no idea how deep
this [__] runs because it is very very
real
um a lot of lives have been touched by
it so
this is one of the things that i'm
really passionate about and been working
with soul pancake on
some uh
content around
but yeah through the course of this i've
spoken about my own personal struggles
with this
and um
you know
i guess
for me
uh one of the things that's that's
central to this discussion is that for
any young person who feels like they're
depressed or they're suicidal or they're
anxious you feel like you're the only
one in the world feeling that way you
really there's a certain measure of
isolation that goes with
the disease of mental illness where you
feel no one else could possibly
understand what i'm going through so
it's really important for people
for
speakers thinkers writers celebrities to
speak about their struggles
this has
really helped people um um as i've gone
along so
yeah so
you know i don't know how much i want to
get into specifics but i will say that
you know
when i got out of college i was really
lost for many years
i suffered from severe anxiety attacks
i would get anxiety
attacks where i would be
on the subway in new york city like
shaking and was afraid that people were
going to think that i was like a crack
addict because i was like sweating i'm
kind of sweating right now actually but
that's more from the
la weather but um
uh
you know i would be shaking and sweating
on the subway um
uh panicking or days i couldn't get out
of bed sometimes i would just fall to
the ground
um
these came and went
for years sometimes they would be
attached to a thing so all of a sudden
it would get attached to flying and then
i would have this terrible fear of
flying then it would go away from flying
and then it would be enclosed spaces and
i would get it around in closed spaces
then it would just kind of
randomly happen
how did you as an actor on the stage how
did you deal with that that's gotta be a
pretty big trigger
um to literally be on stage in front of
people
yeah yeah in fact it was a big deal i um
i it never happened on stage
but
i would get that fear you know that when
you get that cold
chilled ice water in your veins like
heart thumping fear like oh oh [__] this
thing is about to happen
i would get that terror that i was on
the stage because i did theater for 10
years before i came to la and eventually
did the office so um i did a lot of
different plays a lot of different
styles of acting characters and i was
terrified that one of these days i was
gonna seize up on stage forget all my
lines and start shaking and sweating do
you have a guess as to why it didn't
happen
well
i think
i think that it's like people who
stutter like i have a couple friends
that stutter and when they're acting
they don't stutter they're actors who
study so in real life they stutter and
when they're on stage playing characters
they don't stutter so what is that about
there's a certain part of the brain that
you're using there's a certain
consciousness and focus that you're
bringing to the words that you're saying
that
i think allow you to not stutter and to
not succumb to panic attacks um
but i was gonna say jumping ahead
this all came back years later when i
started doing talk shows
and i had this sounds crazy
it sounds absolutely nuts but i started
having a debilitating
fear of doing talk shows this is like in
the when i started doing the office the
early 2000s you know this was i did my
first one in like
2005 2006 between like 2006 2010 right
in there
when the office was just taking off and
i was doing conan o'brien back when he
was at rockefeller center and stuff like
that
and i would
not sleep the night before i would have
night terrors
and i would have a debilitating fear
of
freezing on camera not having anything
to say
and uh
and
just kind of shutting down and even
stuff happening with my body i had so i
actually
it never actually happened
but i would have to like work on my
material talk shows are a really weird
thing this is different we're just
having a conversation but a talk show
with a live studio audience that's being
taped
and then that
uh what's being taped is just gonna be
fed through and this was back in the day
when people were actually watching
network television and there was
actually one episode i need to find it
somewhere it's in the
annals of of the youtube videos that no
one cares about or watches anymore it
was like me and jay leno in 2008 or
something like that and i
i told him about my fear of talk shows
and that my therapist wanted me to act
out having a nervous breakdown on
national television and i actually did
it almost as like a skit and people
thought like is this supposed to be
funny is this real it had a little bit
of a
charlie kaufman
to it you weren't sure what you're
supposed to think but i i literally went
on the floor on jay leno's show and i
was like
shaking and like uh and i said thank you
so much this was so therapeutic because
i went through
my my biggest fear which was having an
anxiety attack uh on a talk show
i have to see that interview now that
that is crazy did it actually help like
was there something therapeutic like was
it exposure therapy or
you know it did help a little bit it did
help it showed me the absurdity of like
rain
you're not gonna be seized by tremors
and have giant flop sweat and shake you
know in a fetal position on the floor of
a national talk show it's just it's not
gonna happen
um it didn't completely go away it's not
like i was magically cured after that
but it definitely took a step in the
right direction and have you had a
process beyond that like meditation or
um cold plunges anything to to help with
that or is it just over time you've done
so many of them that now it's not as
troublesome
you're so 20 20. meditation and cold
plunges um
that that really is a time stamp
those are those actually are great tools
you know i've done a lot of work around
it and a lot of therapy and meditation i
do meditate about the therapy is the is
it therapy exposure therapy or is it
talk therapy cognitive behavioral
therapy like what what was actually
useful as somebody who has struggled
profoundly with anxiety um i find the
breakthroughs that people have had to be
super useful
well
generally i'm a big proponent of therapy
because
my parents didn't know how to talk about
emotions let alone to teach me about how
to process feelings
that my wiring was all screwed up by the
time i got to my 20s that's what i was
finding out it's like my internal wiring
so it took me years and fortunately i
was making enough money as an actor that
i could afford therapy and i had pretty
good health care so that that helps but
the process of learning about how
feelings work
you know and they need to be expressed
and they need to be felt
and
you know if you're sad
you need to cry and you need to let it
out and you need to do self-care and
allow yourself to be sad and
process that
so you had a guy a young adult with all
these unprocessed feelings then you
factor various addictions in on that as
well you you know there was my drinking
phase drugs phase porn phase gambling
phase you name it whatever i could kind
of become addicted to at the time um
trying to soothe those feelings that
were not being expressed trying to numb
them trying to escape them through
taking things into my body and into my
senses
that
that didn't help generally
just learning about how feelings worked
was very helpful
the guy i've been working with for the
last
six to eight years he does a thing
called gestalt therapy which is very
interesting it was very big in
you know the 50s or 60s and it kind of
waned but it's really interesting so
it's some people do call it like the
empty chair work and that's essentially
gestalt therapy so for instance
there's the part of me that's
debilitated by anxiety
so that and according to gestalt therapy
is
a character that resides in me i have a
lot of dif there's a chorus of voices a
course of characters that reside in each
one of us you simply engage in a
conversation with that character so it's
this kind of actors actually do really
well with it it's kind of like role
playing so you have myself there's the
therapist over here and there's an empty
chair so i'm me then i have a
conversation with
my anxious guy i'm like tell me about
yourself i remember sometimes i've been
just debilitated by anxiety i couldn't
move i um i
was
tongue-tied sweating in panic attacks
like who are you and what
what are you about that you kind of take
me over in that way
and then i get you literally get up
and you walk over and you sit in that
other chair
and you talk back to the empty chair
that guy talking back to rain to
reasonable rain
and that guy you don't know what's going
to come out you do you don't try and
plan it you just try and just
it's like improv you just step into the
shoes of that person and by the way you
can do this all with writing too you can
just do conversations by writing and
some people take to that a lot more
easily and then that guy might say like
you you know you're a piece of [__] and
nobody likes you and so
you're you're terrified of being found
out as a total fraud and unlovable and
so i'm there to protect you and and if
that happens like i'm gonna i'm gonna
i'm gonna protect you and you're gonna
i'm gonna seize you up and i'm gonna
overwhelm you so that i'm just by the
way i don't know that any of this that
i'm saying is is the truth i'm just
giving an example
super helpful
and and you can do that with all of
these different characters in your head
and
um
they then they cease to have that as
much control because they're not these
characters swimming in the sea of our
unconscious that sometimes leap out with
their tentacles and grab on and control
us
they're much more like oh when you hear
that voice you start to feel the anxiety
like oh there's mr anxiety guys again
or you try and control it's like oh
there's my control freak i wonder what
he's trying to control or there's my
angry act reactive guy going again
it kind of it allows that kind of
distance to know that
i don't have to be a victim
to these characters that live within me
there's a concept i forget
a really famous negotiator i'm
forgetting his name but he talked about
a similar concept where he said you go
to the balcony so you're going to the
balcony to get that distance to be
looking down on yourself so that you can
be more objective in the situation and
really figure out what is true what's
not true um and and you know talk
yourself down as it were it's
interesting that's a really powerful
i've never done it but that sounds like
a super powerful way to begin to develop
self-awareness which is certainly what a
lot of people struggle with the
interesting thing for me is i didn't
have anxiety when i was a kid but i was
woefully unself-aware and then as i
began to develop self-awareness i began
to have thoughts about oh what do people
think of me am i going to make a fool of
myself and and that was sort of planting
those first seeds of anxiety but then
you sort of become blind to yourself
again
of not understanding like what's really
driving this and that notion of learning
to process through your emotions i think
is really really powerful
so we've got the empty chair technique
we've got journaling
which that that certainly is something
closer to what i do i found journaling
to be incredibly powerful
have there been other breakthrough
moments for you and i'm asking you
particularly in the context of service
and faith
so
you know between the baja faith and if
there's anything there around that about
the nature of life and maybe stillness
or something i'm obviously guessing but
um and then service you know seeing how
actively you pursue
um mattering purpose
i wonder if any of that is tied up in
into
getting to the other side of anxiety and
depression
yeah that's um
yeah we haven't even gotten to the
depression part but the
um
so my my personal faith a member of the
baha'i faith has definitely inspired
uh this idea that
we rise to our maximum potential when
we're of service to others
and not only our maximum potential
but our
our greatest usefulness
and living in that potential and
usefulness
uh
gives us the most kind of
rich human satisfaction
and i know
for me because i spent a long time
when i first started getting famous
various points in time
just trying to satisfy myself and my ego
and i was miserable in fact they do
studies on happiness and this is part of
mental health as you can um i'm sure
you've had some happiness experts on but
they're you know there's so many books
about it and the whole field of positive
psychology is really exciting uh field
it just started in the 90s and when i
was going to college
there was no such field as positive
psychology now there's thousands of
books about it and um
and they're they're really exciting but
one of the things that is
um a hundred percent true in positive
psychology is irrefutable that one of
the worst ways to achieve
happiness contentment whatever you want
to call it
is through materialism
and yet we live in a culture that tells
you over and over and over again
if you get this car if you get this
amount of money if you have this amount
of
of success this amount of fame this
amount of
um
a promotion
then you will be happy you will achieve
happiness once you get to that certain
level and yet the pursuit of that the
pursuit of like i need to make 165 000 a
year to be happy or i need to own the
new tesla to be happy or once i get this
kind of girlfriend or spouse or whatever
then i'll be happy the pursuit of kind
of a materialistic
uh
view of happiness is um
it has an inverse effect
it it decreases your happiness it makes
you less healthy you can do again i
don't have those exact specifics on the
tip of my tongue it's a simple google
search um
and
conversely
happiness contentment
self in enrichment i always talk about
eudaimonia eudaimonia you know you've
probably heard about that and talked
about that before i think we spoke about
it before the idea that
the ancient greeks had a word for
happiness called eudaimonia which is
human flourishing
you know and i love that umbrella
concept like what creates the
the largest human flourishing
let's let's focus on that
um forget happiness human flourishing
but from the baha'i faith from the study
of positive psychology
helping others being of service
maximizing how much
you matter
actually
is the number one
um cause of human flourishing so
um i just
when i kind of get into my [__] of like
oh i'm not acting as much as i should be
or
people only know me as dwight or
i'll never have a career again or
you know i need
x show to make x amount of money so that
i can go on next vacation or or
something when i get into that whole
stuff which you know that comes and goes
every week
um it's kind of like
how can i be
of service how can i how can i help
people how can i
take the skills
that god has given me that nature has
given me and put those to their best
possible use so i let that be um
i try
and let that be a guiding light in my
life
yeah that to me is really interesting
because it jives with what i'll call
sort of the physics of being human you
know when you think about
and i know that one thing you don't love
is
uh reducing things that feel a little
that i want to be true to your words
that are sort of a spiritual
god-inspired moment like holding your
child for the first time um
for me
i share that same sense of wonder and
beauty but for me i love recognizing it
as the neurochemistry you know just like
the the cocktail of what's going on in
your brain that it is but with that same
reverence and awe that you bring to it
so understanding like the physics of
being human is when because we're a
social creature you have this
natural reward that's built in when you
are
using a set of skills that you have
worked to build up and now you're
helping not only yourself but you're
helping somebody else and when i think
about human flourishing and eudemonia
that to me feels like that magic
cocktail where you will whether you want
to or not you will get a burst of
feel-good chemistry when you start
heading down that path
and so that is
again one of the things that i find so
interesting about you is there seems
like this through line in your life of
even even at
the height of fame for you i feel like
you'd be leveraging that to do something
for other people as well
and that gives this sort of equilibrium
that's from the outside i'm sure that it
feels differently from the inside but
from the outside it has that through
line that seems to provide a lot of sort
of emotional stability um and you know
when i put it in the context of what
we're all going through now in this time
of isolation where i'm sure a lot of
people are really struggling um is
service something that you think will
see people through
and
how in this time can they leverage that
what can they do to to reach out and
feel more useful and connected
yeah so
and by the way i just want to go back to
a little bit about what you said about
the physics of being a human being you
know
whether you're
uh an atheist materialist and i'm
talking about the use of the word
materialist not as accruing material
items but just seeing the world as
molecules
um or whether you're a spiritual uh
person that believes that there's some
larger force at work
beyond time and space uh
some creator let's call it god whatever
um
this
it
spirituality works through dopamine
spirituality works through endorphins
and the reward system in the brain and
it works through physics so
it's like when people there was a
scientist who uh in the last decade
discovered like a point in the brain
where people would have uh religious and
spiritual epiphanies and say aha i've
disproved spirituality because i
actually found the point in the brain
where people experience spirituality and
this disproves it it's like no of course
not you idiot this is we're in material
bodies you know when we see beauty we
experience it through the eyes when we
hear something beautiful we experience
it through the ear and then it and
there's neurons flashing around in the
brain so it all works harmoniously the
physical the spiritual it all is
combined so going back to service
um
yeah so there's selfish reasons to be to
do service i want to do service because
it makes me feel good
um
but you know even if you look at human
flourishing a little bit broader than
that there are other reasons
to
to there are other ways to flourish
um
it beyond just like oh i'm getting a
nice dopamine rush because i helped this
homeless person out
and that
is also
and the other component to service is
like
look around
look around at the world because things
are [__]
up right now
they always have been you can you have
those authors you know like pinker and
other people that are like oh the world
is great we've had less wars and less
deaths than we've ever had yeah okay
well i get it however just
go talk to one of the billion people in
the planet that are going to bed hungry
every night and okay maybe it used to be
2 billion 80 years ago
uh but
people are hurting there's you know
systemic
racism there's there's there's climate
change coming there's uh economic uh
in injustice everywhere and so the other
reason to do service is
to try and make the world a better place
because we need it and if you want to
maximize your compassion
uh for others then you want to
devote yourself to trying to uplift and
and help other people just because it's
good for the species and good for the
planet
it's also good for your human
flourishing on a micro level as a human
as a human being and it's your
human flourishing on a macro level you
know we have these two paths in the
baha'i faith there's a
it's called the two-fold moral you have
a two-fold moral purpose we refer to it
you try and make yourself a better
person
so part of my goal tom as i go through
life is i want to be
a better person what does that mean i
want to reflect
more of the qualities of the divine and
you can call them leadership traits or
character virtues or whatever you want
to call it it's fine for me i'm going to
look at it in that sense i want to be
more kind i want to be more
compassionate i want to be more patient
i want to be more honest i want to be
more giving i want to be more loving i
battle with this stuff every day it's
not like i don't have it all figured out
by any means ask my wife but
i want to i'm working on this path and
i'm also working to make the world a
better place i want to make myself a
better place and i want to make the
world a better place and if i if i hitch
my wagons to those two pursuits
going back to
anxiety going back to depression going
back to loneliness
i truly believe
that's the answer
that's the way out of any kind of mental
illness it's like i'm gonna make myself
a better person i'm gonna make the world
a better place in everything that i'm
doing i've got these two chariots and
i'm going down this road or i'm going
down this road or i'm going down both
together yeah i'm i'm with you on that
this when i think about you know what
we're going through now and like you
were talking about loneliness was
epidemic before we came into the
pandemic so
how do you
you know begin to deal with sort of the
really overwhelming sense of being
lonely and disconnected as you get into
a time like this
um and i think you're right on the money
i think that having the
having established your value system
that's actually a really powerful
insight and i'd be very curious to hear
more about what your value system is and
if you
have sort of intentionally documented
that or if it's you're playing by ear
but having a value system living by it
you know
you're calling it sort of traits of the
divine and i think we're saying the same
thing just like you said i use maybe
slightly different words so
um leveraging that we're a social
creature that will get rewards by um
trying to uplift the group right so
by doing things like that you are going
to start to feel better you are going to
start to feel more connected
um how have you given that we're still
physically distancing
how have you done that is it the um
reach outs that you do on social media
over zoom or skype or
do you have techniques that are working
well for you to allow you to serve allow
you to connect
how have i done it in the pandemic i
don't know that i've been very
successful you know
honestly i've tried to increase my
prayer in meditation
uh increase kind of gratitude
you know i'm sure you've spoken to
people about gratitude on your show but
gratitude is
the
number one tool of positive psychology
and it's really the number one tool of
people of faith when you think about it
because when you're praying you're
giving thanks to the divine you know
you're saying
god is great you allow akbar however you
want to look at god or the divine and
saying thank you for this beautiful day
or thank you for the stuff i have or
thank you for me being alive and having
my senses today
so uh increasing gratitude
is a huge uh help in increasing
happiness and human flourishing
so
my tendency is to get very dark and
cynical and i can interest
i think anyone
that's on this path has gone through
uh dark and cynical times and you may
not perceive me as that but i can be
pretty pessimistic
so it takes a lot of work for me to
counter my natural impulse
i would say my natural impulse and a lot
of people's natural impulses for
self-satisfaction
uh pleasure increased status increased
comfort
uh kind of pessimism things aren't going
to work out negativity
so i've had to do all this work to
counter that
you know what i mean uh
sisyphus pushing the boulder up the hill
but gratitude is
um
is that who sisyphus was or did he get
the fire no that was ignorant
i don't know
you were right on the money
all of a sisyphus i was like did i get
my did i [__] up my
my greek mythology metaphors here um
but
one thing again that positive psychology
in the study of mental health issues
shows us is we need connectivity
[Music]
yes we need it for increased
endorphins
and
and dopamine
but
we
need it to thrive
and this is a very
difficult time
um
so
how do we make community you know we i
just try and like do social distancing
with friends at starbucks and have a
coffee from six feet away do that a
couple times a day
you know play some tennis get outside
connect with nature i don't know that
i'm being very successful but
again so
we talked
our western society in 2020 is trying to
convince us that buying stuff and
accruing stuff will make us happier
we're being fooled by this as we spend
hours a day you know when you get that
the weekly updates of like how much time
you spend on your screen and you're just
like oh my god what the hell am i doing
so
um
trying to put the phone away whenever i
can um and increase the connectivity
yeah i think uh wise moves wise moves
for sure do you
when you're working with your son do you
think about it any differently given the
age that he's going through this at
um are you recommending the same things
for him i know there's a lot of parents
out there right now that are struggling
with the same thing you know it's we all
thought this was going to be brief and
this has become
i mean this is crazy
um on so many levels this is crazy yeah
my son is 15 almost 16 and it's brutal
for teenagers right now i i really truly
think they have it the worst and the
parents of teenagers we only have one
you can imagine having being a parent of
three teenagers or something like that
it's
because all teenagers want to do is be
with other teenagers and they can't
and you you may think you know a zoom
classroom kind of scratches that itch a
little bit
but
it's not a
panacea toward toward that so it's
incredibly uh trying
we i went camping with him we went six
days out in the wilderness i don't have
any answers around this it's really
tough and my my heart really goes out to
the
you know the single mom with two or
three or four kids
um
during this time it's it's brutal
this is a real test
so as you um
walk us through what's going on how
you're leveraging service and how
powerful that can be to help people at
pretty much any point in their life
when i look at the ways that you have
done that from creating soul pancake to
just entertaining people and now moving
into um what you're doing with climate
change super curious to know and what
you're doing in haiti and trying to
empower women through the arts i mean
it's really a pretty extensive resume of
cool things that you've done to to be of
service um walk me through what you're
doing now with the climate change i
think it's really interesting because
you framed it as i don't know [__] about
it but i'm not afraid to go discover and
like really take myself out there and
just take you guys along on the journey
which i love because so many people will
dismiss something like that saying well
i don't know about it so um you sort of
being the pied piper of well let's go
discover together
what made you pick that is that a
general technique that you use of just
like hey i'm just going to go learn
well
so you use the tools that you have
to try and make yourself better and to
make the world a better place as we
talked about and
one thing i
really haven't known very much about and
i was just a slacktivist you know it's
just a keyboard social justice warrior
was about climate change just kind of
like
reading an article
about how
terrible climate change is posting it on
my twitter then a bunch of people are
like oh that's [__] it doesn't exist
the weather's always been changing
that's one i really love
yeah
not like this not over a hundred years
over 20 000 years sure the weather's
been changing not over 120 years idiot
um
so i i was doing the minimum you know i
was yeah i have an electric car and i
was tweeting about it that's the minimum
so i was like how do i use my platform
how do i use my voice to
to not only get the message across but
for me to learn more about it i need to
get off my fat ass and actually do
something so
you know fortunately i have a lot of
young office fans who love dwight
and they also know me as kind of an
idiot and you know i can just be
coarse and uncouth and weird and
uh
sloppy and
you know offbeat and these are my
qualities so how do i harness that i i
started to get to know these scientists
and especially this one dr gail whiteman
who's an amazing
uh amazing social scientist
who studies climate change and so she
kind of interacts with climate science
and climate scientists and connects them
to municipalities
cities governments big business you know
the the government of the netherlands
and you know to about effects of climate
change and what we can do and what not
and she was like let's just let's i'm
we're going up to greenland there's a
bunch of scientists i know up there
come meet me
we shot this whole series on soul
pancakes youtube channel called an
idiot's guide to climate change that's
where people can find it um we've done
five of the six episodes that aired so
far the sixth is airing very soon and
um
it's uh it's a it's a oh we shot the
whole thing for like 67 000
the entire thing
like i just did this amazon show called
utopia that's coming out soon and that's
like it's literally like the mustache
wig budget for for that show i mean we
did it for super cheap but
for me it's like get off your butt and
actually do something a learn about the
science we can all learn about the
science it's not that hard it's all
right there
um
and
communicate about the science
one of the failings in the whole
journey
humanities journey around climate
changes the scientists have really
failed us
um
up until about 10 up until about 10
years ago
scientists always because academia is is
so messed up and just how academia works
and that's a whole other conversation
scientists really viewed it as their
role to research and discover data and
post their data and that's it they would
write they would see these
warning signs that humanity is headed
for the precipice and they type up their
data and they put it in you know the
journal of science and that's that's it
i'm done do i get my raise do i get my
tenure do i get to transfer i i publish
this thing can i go to another college
university
again so these
uh
scientists are not viewing
their
their duty and their role
to their uh being a member of the human
species the information that they have
been accumulating remember that we've
had this information about climate
change since the late 70s and early 80s
you know we had that when you you can go
back and look at studies from like 1982
i forget which one
and we're exactly on track exactly on
track with what scientists were
discovering in 1982 in the reagan years
back when both the republicans and the
democrats thought that this was a great
threat
back when it was not so polarized
so
scientists need to share their data uh
more forcefully and in different ways to
uh to help us move forward because now
we have this whole science anti-science
kind of thing going on and it's it's
partially the fault of of academia so
i've been rambling but anyways there you
have it not at all man it's interesting
to see your thought process and to see
what you get interested in and
one i love tackling the big challenges
you listed at the beginning of the
interview like here are the big things
that i think are really going on and so
to see you in there
um
not accepting
you know the deviation from your own
value system so it's like hey i feel
like i should be doing something about
this so i'm going to get off my ass i'm
going to go do something i don't know
about it but i'm not afraid to learn i'm
also not afraid to look stupid which i
think is incredibly important and so
going in and and you're challenged to
not letting things be so divisive i
think is um really important i fear
it seems to be falling on deaf ears uh
but i i would love to amplify that
notion of people really looking um you
know what works and just being obsessed
elon musk said it best for me when it
comes to climate change like
are humans causing climate change i i
almost don't care what the answer is it
is a really stupid experiment since we
know that we have to find an alternative
to fossil fuels
burning through them all and sending you
know carbon dioxide into the atmosphere
until the bitter end not knowing if
that's going to be a problem just seems
like a really stupid experiment and i
thought that is the perfect way to look
at this there's no there's no great
outcome here so putting your time and
energy into solving or not forget saying
it like solving the problem just moving
to something that is renewable
is certainly the obvious answer and so
when people begin to entrench and it
becomes us versus them i'm on this side
or that side it's like i'm on the side
of what works i always want to be on the
side of what works what is our goal
what's actually moving us towards our
goal and that you can always count me on
that team and if i realize i've been
running in the wrong direction
and there's data to show me that i'm
running in the wrong direction then you
know i'm happy to switch it up and
trying to get people excited about that
idea like be data-driven what is your
goal and are we marching towards that
goal yes or no and if you're making pro
if you can state your goal and you're
willing to state it your goal is i will
say honorable it should be both exciting
and honorable so that you can get people
behind it and that in getting people
behind it you're actually making things
better for the world so if you have an
exciting and honorable goal then you
just ask are we actually moving towards
that or away from that and
if we could get people excited about
that instead of excited about i'm on
this team and i just dunked on somebody
on twitter and made them look a fool
uh i think we'd be in a much better
position but that would require people
to do what you're doing which is go out
and say look i don't know about this but
i'm gonna go learn and
that to me is is exciting man it was so
neat to see you do that and as always
your your content is is quality your
your personality is beyond disarming um
so it it's it's a great ride um where do
you want people engaging with you and
all the cool stuff that you're up to
these days
well they can certainly check out an
idiot's guide to climate change
uh on the soul pancake youtube channel
um
and uh follow me on the social media
uh i'm working on a book on all of this
stuff so eventually hopefully
do we have a loose title
oh it's a it's a terrible title my
working title is the worst working title
and i feel horrible but it it
um
uh
in in its um
i don't even remember what it is now
well the last one i remember bassoon
king so you you definitely have a tall
order to top that
my life story is in the my memoir that
came out four or five years ago the
bassoon king that's a good that's a good
laugh but my yeah my new book is
something like uh the upcoming spiritual
revolution or something oh [__] it's
kind of like
um
how do we harness the power of
spirituality
to change the world going all the way
back to the to the bhagavad gita to the
vedas of the upanishads to you know the
writings of the buddha to the to the
bible the quran
uh are there tools in there that can
make us better people and make the world
a better place so i love it man that's
awesome well i cannot wait to see what
you put together on that um i certainly
have enjoyed the last two books of years
that i read so i'm about it can't wait
excellent tom great talking to you again
man dude same everybody this man is not
only funny but he has got a just
absolute treasure trove of insight so i
highly encourage you to spend time read
his books check out his content
all of it it's amazing and if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe
here as well and until next time my
friends be legendary take care
i think that
trying to generate your own material
will not only maybe you'll get it made
but it'll also give you a better sense
of what it is that you want to do